# 4. Creating Music NFT Metadata

## Metadata Madness!

Now that you have all the files uploaded for the media and images, you are ready to create the metadata for the tokens!

This is the time consuming boring part!

Make sure you know all the information about your song so you're ready to enter everything in. The full list of required info for metadata will be included with the metadata template code.  Fill in all the metadata you know about the song.  The more thicc the metadata, the better!

You will have to enter in all the links for each file correctly, as well as all the text metadata, which means there's a lot of opportunities for little mistakes.  Which is why you have to double check everything while you're making the metadata files.

You can find a copy of the blank metadata template linked below.

{% embed url="https://github.com/jasondesante/721J-Token/blob/master/Metadata%20Templates/token_uri_template_blank.json" %}

## Making The Metadata

To edit the metadata template, copy it from the GitHub page and open it in a text editor.  It can be any type of text editor, but one that is meant for coding will be best.  VSCode is a good one to use.

{% embed url="https://code.visualstudio.com/" %}

We will be creating a JSON file, or editing an existing JSON file (the metadata template).  To make the metadata you must:

1. Open your text editor
2. Copy the metadata template into your editor
3. Fill out the form piece by piece
4. Enter in all the links for images, and audio files
5. Double check the names, descriptions, files and everything is correct. &#x20;
6. Save the JSON file.
7. Make the metadata file for the next rarity or song.  For different rarities, normally the only pieces of metadata that change are the "rarity" and "image" fields

Then you can gather all the JSON files for each song and rarity and upload them all to ArDrive.

## Things to Look Out For

When you are creating metadata for different rarities of the same song, a lot of the fields will end up being the same.  We need to be aware which fields change and which don't.  Usually the only fields that change across rarities will be the name of the "rarity", and the files of the main song's image, because different rarity tokens usually have slightly different images.

Some metadata doesn't change across rarities, and songs, and are consistent for a whole album.  The album image and album/artist info is something that is unchanged across all rarities, and songs.

Another thing that is easy to mess up is the mime/type of a file.  For me I messed up a couple times not double checking if an image was a jpeg or png.  Always double check!

{% embed url="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types" %}

## Next Steps

When you have entered all the metadata and files you know, that song is ready.  Once you have the metadata made for each rarity of each song, then you are finally ready to upload all of the metadata files to Arweave.

These JSON files that represent the metadata are the files we will be using as "Token URIs" when we actually mint a token.

## Video

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/_6ZqsKqG2yE" %}

